[MUSIC]
We spent the last few videos discussing
how dynamic programming methods
can allow us to compute value
functions and policies.
But how useful are these methods really?
How do they compare to
simple alternatives?
In this video, we will talk about some of
the other possible solution strategies.
By comparison, dynamic programming
is actually surprisingly efficient.
By the end of this video, you'll be
able to describe Monte Carlo sampling as
an alternative method for
learning a value function.
Describe brute force-search
as an alternative method for
finding an optimal policy.
And understand the advantages
of dynamic programming and
bootstrapping over these alternatives.
Iterative policy evaluation is the dynamic
programming solution to the prediction or
policy evaluation problem.
Let's look at a sample-based
alternative for policy evaluation.
The value of each state can be treated as
a totally independent estimation problem.
First, recall that the value is
the expected return from a given state.
The procedure is simple, first,
we gather a large number of returns
under pi and take their average.
This will eventually
converge to the state value,
this is called the Monte Carlo method.
However, if we do it this way, we may need
a large number of returns from each state.
Each return depends on many
random actions, selected by pi,
as well as many random state transitions
due to the dynamics of the MDP.
We could be dealing with
a lot of randomness here,
each return might be very different
than the true state value.
So we may need to average many returns
before the estimate converges, and
we have to do this for every single state.
The key insight of dynamic programming
is that we do not have to treat
the evaluation of each state
as a separate problem.
We can use the other value estimates we
have already worked so hard to compute.
This process of using the value
estimates of successor states
to improve our current value
estimate is known as bootstrapping.
This can be much more efficient than
a Monte Carlo method that estimates
each value independently.
Policy iteration computes
optimal policies,
brute-force search is
a possible alternative.
This method simply evaluates every
possible deterministic policy one at
a time, we then pick the one
with the highest value.
There are a finite number of
deterministic policies, and
there always exists an optimal
deterministic policy.
So brute-force search will find
the answer eventually, however,
the number of deterministic
policies can be huge.
A deterministic policy consists
of one action choice per state.
So the total number of deterministic
policies is exponential in the number
of states.
Even on a fairly simple problem,
this number could be massive,
this process could take a very long time.
The policy improvement theorem guarantees
that policy iteration will find a sequence
of better and better policies.
This is a significant improvement over
exhaustively trying each and every policy.
So how efficient is dynamic programming
compared to these naive alternatives?
Well, policy iteration is guaranteed
to find the optimal policy
in time polynomial in the number
of states and actions.
Thus, dynamic programming is exponentially
faster than the brute-force search
of the policy space.
In practice,
dynamic programming is usually much
faster, even in this worst-case guarantee.
For example,
the original four-by-four GridWorld
converged in just one
step of policy iteration.
When we made the problem
harder by adding bad states,
it still converged in
just five iterations.
It might also seem restrictive that
we have to run policy evaluation to
completion for
each step of policy iteration.
In practice, this is not so
bad, with each iteration,
the policy tends to change less and less.
The policy evaluation step changes
the value function less and
thus the evaluation step
typically terminates quickly.
Generally, solving an MDP gets harder
as the number of states grows.
The curse of dimensionality says that
the size of the state space grows
exponentially as the number
of state variable increases.
A single agent moving
around a GridWorld is fine.
But what if we wanted to
coordinate a transportation
network of thousands of drivers
moving between hundreds of locations?
A raw enumeration of the possible states
could lead to an exponential blow-up.
Clearly, this would lead to problems
if we try to sweep the states
to perform policy iteration.
In fact, this is not an issue
with dynamic programming.
This is a statement about the difficulty
of the problems we are interested in
tackling, various techniques for
mitigating this curse exist.
And we will continue to
deal with this curse for
the remainder of our time together,
that's it for this video.
The most important takeaway is that
bootstrapping can save us from performing
a huge amount of unnecessary work by
exploiting the connection between
the value of a state and
its possible successors.
See you next time.